About
	VulnerabilityVigil is a command line based program made to help out those who may not be as knowledgeable 
    about Linux servers. Certain aspects of Linux servers such as keeping your system secure and making sure 
    everything is correctly is focused upon in this program. There are multiple tools included in the 
    VulnerabilityVigil program, such as a Virus Scanner, a password security checker, a tool to check the 
    status of Apache, and a few more functions to aid a Linux user on a server. Vulnerability Vigil is 
    primarily made for Linux users and makes use of Linux commands at this moment so support for other 
    platforms is currently not available. The main mode of accessing the functions of the program is through 
    typing the name of the program when prompted. It is possible to run multiple programs at once if multiple 
    different names are entered. Here are the following commands for each program:
___ - Starts the virus scanner
___ - Starts the Apache scanner
___ - Starts the WAF detection program
___ - Starts the cipher suite check
___ - Starts the password check
___ - Starts the update/system update check
___ - Shows the about section
WAF Detection
	This tool helps you to discover the web application firewall of a site on the internet. The tool makes use 
    of wafw00f for WAF detection. A web application firewall is like a filter for traffic when connecting to a 
    site and provides a defense for a lot of attacks such as cross-site-scripting and SQL injection. WAFs are 
    not able to defend a site against every type of attack, but it is an added layer of defense that is 
    preferable to have than not.
Cipher Check
	This program will check a few common configuration files to see the cipher suites used are secure. All 
    servers and websites make use of some type of encryption protocol in order to send data safely and securely,
    cipher suites are one of the encryption tools your server uses for these purposes. Encryption is an 
    essential part of any between devices over a connection as it protects your data from being intercepted by 
    an outside party, like for a MitM attack. Your server and/or site most likely makes use of cipher suites, 
    but if not it is highly advised you make use of some. In general, higher bit encryption is favorable, lower 
    than 112 is not very secure, but too high bit keys can severely slow down encryption speeds. Some sample 
    cipher suites to use are within the program. Check your TLS version using [insert command] to see which 
    suites are compatible with the version of TLS your server uses.
Shadow Password Check
    This program will check all the passwords for all users within a Linux system to see if there are any weak 
passwords. This is done by using a dictionary attack using the program Hashcat. A dictionary attack is a method 
of breaking into a password-protected computer or network by systematically entering every word in a dictionary,
or word list, as a password. The word list used by our shadow password check is rockyou.txt containing millions
of common words and phrases and utilizing Hashcat to check different combinations of the words and phrases in 
this dictionary to determine whether a user has a weak password in the Linux system.
MySQL Password Check
    This program will check all the passwords for all users created in a MySQL database server. This is done by 
logging into the user’s root account for the MySQL password and opening the table of users and their 
authentication string for the login of their MySQL databases. A default password for a MySQL database server is 
when the user provides no password when creating the user, which will result in an empty string for the table of
authenticated users within the MySQL server. To check if all the passwords are good and that there is no 
default password used for login, the password check function checks for an empty string for the user’s 
authentication string and returns the name of the user with a default password for the MySQL login.
Virus Scanner 
	This program uses the ClamAV open source tool to check wherever you select for viruses. They do this by 
checking a database and cross referencing byte signatures to check if the file has a malicious intent. The 
scan will then send out what it finds which you will see in the report function that Vulnerability Vigil 
will provide. What you can do is choose to specifically target small directories to increase the speed of 
the scanner. The more broad the scan the more time it will take to finish the scan. What I suggest is to 
run the scan repeatedly looking at specific directories or create a specific Directory that you put new 
files in to allow the amount scanned be very little and focused.

